welcome back to movies explained today
we are looking at the movie called the
gift
the story starts with simon and robin
checking out a house they are thinking
of moving into the agent casey shows
them the rooms the koi pond and tells
them about the open floor plan and the
lights and the fireplace casey asks
simon about his work he tells her about
moving to california from chicago due to
a new job simon and robin are picking up
some items for their home when a man
greets simon he tells him that we both
know each other and are from the same
high school fairmount park simon
introduces gordon to his wife and tells
him about moving from chicago they have
to leave for their house so they go to
garden and ask him to catch up some
other day in the morning robin unpacks
her stuff she is throwing trash outside
when she hears a baby crying in the car
she goes to grab her when lucy and ron
robin's neighbors come and read her lucy
asks her about her experience in the
neighborhood and that she can always
come over to tea or have a glass of wine
whenever she wants robin is taking a
bath when she hears knocking on the door
she checks to see who's there and finds
a gift with a wine bottle and a letter
at the door the gift is from gordon
simon is amazed to see gordon getting
their address without them telling him
robin suggests thanking gordon for the
favor she is at lucy's when she tells
her about her story of losing her baby
in chicago she also tells her that they
are trying to start a family she holds
lucy's baby for a while then hands her
back and goes back to her place she is
working and cooking side by side when
gordon knocks at the door she thanks him
for the wine when he hands her a list of
local people with phone numbers like the
gardener maids etc he then gives her a
glass cleaner and robin thanks him again
gordon is fascinated by the architecture
of the place and praises it a lot he
comes in on robin's request and she
shows him around the house he looks at
her stuff so she tells him about the
unpacking she's been doing she informs
simon that gordon is going to have
dinner with them at the dinner table
simon and gordon discuss their high
school gordon says i knew simon would be
someone who would make a life for
himself i am very happy for you he makes
a toast to the old friends and the new
ones gordon keeps asking simon about his
work what he does and compliments him on
having a new job a beautiful wife and a
new home he suggests robin and simon
start a family they look at each other
with sadness simon tries to get to know
gordon and he tells him that he did two
tours in the military but then ended up
doing other stuff when gordon leaves
simon tells robin he feels terrible for
him and that gordon is weird he tries to
paint him as a delusional man and tells
robin how he was irritated by him robin
tries to make him forget about gordon
and says it was just a dinner and it's
over you don't have to do it again robin
and simon go to simon's welcome party
when kevin introduces him to all the
colleagues and toasts new blood to the
company robin tells the people about her
freelancing work with some consulting
firms simon shows robin his huge office
and compares it to danny's saying it is
smaller than his but it will work simon
tells robin about his bosses who once
worked in the mail room and made their
way up robin asks simon do you not want
me to get back to work to which he says
i want you to do whatever you want to do
as long as you stay healthy he tells her
to work anywhere she wants she just
shouldn't be stressed they get back home
and find another gift on their door
robin unpacks the present and finds fish
food with a letter from gordon thanking
them for dinner robin goes to the pond
and sees it filled with the fishes simon
is troubled by gordon's gifts but robin
doesn't find it unusual simon tells her
about gordon that he was a weirdo in
school but robin thinks gordon is
misunderstood he makes jokes about him
and writes gordo the weirdo on the board
the following day when robin comes from
her jogging she hears her dog barking
outside gordon comes again and asks for
simon robin tells him that he is in his
office but he can have tea with her
after talking for a while she leaves to
work on her project at the same time
gordon sees the board on which simon
wrote gordo the weirdo and leaves
without saying anything robin and simon
have neighbors over their house where
they discuss gordon simon says that he
was not affected by seeing his name
written on the board instead he invited
them for dinner over his place with
another couple the neighbors suggest
declining the invitation politely but
they decide to go they enter through the
front gate and are amazed to see his
house gordon welcomes them and hands
them wine glasses they are talking when
gordon receives a call leaving robin and
simon alone in the room simon makes
jokes about gordon and tells his wife
that gordon is obsessed with her he
further adds that all the unannounced
drop bys and visits are because he wants
to have her for himself robin tells
simon he is exaggerating simon sneaks
into one of the rooms and finds dresses
of a woman along with kids stuff they
hear gordon's car sound and rush back to
their place simon asks about the task he
went to do and about his job he tells
them his sob story of his wife leaving
him along with their two kids gordon
tells them that the house belongs to his
wife and he has to do whatever she asks
he asks simon and robin to join him for
dinner simon asks robin to get into the
car while he talks to gordon he says
there is no easy way to say this we
would prefer that you don't visit us
anymore simon and robin sit in the car
and are going to leave but gordon
doesn't open the gate simon steps out of
the car and yells at him making him open
the door robin comes home after jogging
and finds jangles missing while the fish
are dead in the pond simon comes home
and gets angry at the situation he heads
to gordon's place but finds out it
belongs to another couple an
investigator visits simon's house and
simon tells him all that has happened
the investigators say that he doesn't
have any proof so they cannot go and
confront gordon robin prince adds for
her missing dog she visits lucy and gets
some prescription pills from her place
robin wakes up in the middle of the
night looks at the pills but is
distracted by a sound she tries to wake
simon but he is asleep so she checks on
the door she finds bijangles outside
simon thinks gordon is messing with them
in the morning robin finds a letter in
the box from gordon he apologizes and
says i would never do anything to upset
you both and i really wish to start over
again however i will honor your word and
leave you alone in the letter gordon
mentions i wanted bygones to be bygones
i had nothing but good intentions robin
tries to ask simon what this was
pointing to but he rolls the
conversation and says i don't know robin
has trouble sleeping and spends a lot of
time looking at gordon's letter she is
cutting apples one day when she hears
some noise and when she goes to check it
out she faints simon confronts her with
the pills in the morning he starts the
conversation about his promotion but
then asks robin if she wants to tell him
something robin asks simon to call
gordon because she thinks it will make
her feel better but he suspects her
mixing things simon tells her that this
subject is closed and they should move
on with their life they continue their
everyday life and robin gets pregnant
she is shopping with lucy when she sees
gordon outside the shop gordon
immediately leaves when he sees robin
coming towards him she comes back home
and shows the shopping to simon's mother
and sister she is walking with joan who
is simon's sister and asks about gordon
mosley joan says he was the kid who got
sent away they found him getting
molested in a car by an older kid it
turned into a huge case and he ended up
getting bullied by other kids for being
gay at school robin finds out that simon
and his friend greg reported the case
and were the ones to save gordon the
next day when simon leaves for his
office robin opens up his locked drawer
and finds a lot of information and
background checks on gordon and danny
mcdonald's she takes it to lucy on which
lucy tells her to do her research or ask
simon herself robin searches for greg
and goes to see him in his office greg
refuses to give robin any information
but tells her that gordon was not
molested and simon fabricated the story
robin asks greg why simon would do such
a thing he replies because he could
robin discovers that gordon's father
almost killed him for being gay but he
survived the attack gordon's father was
sent to prison for attempted murder and
gordon signed up for the military robin
comes back home and confronts simon
simon shows no remorse but she keeps on
pushing him to feel sorry for getting an
innocent person almost killed simon
tells her to forget it as the story was
25 years old and had been blown out of
proportion robin tells him gordon's
story simon says my father did [ __ ] to
me too but i sucked it up and made
something of myself instead of crying
and praying and being stuck in the past
simon explains his side of the story
when robin comes closer and slaps him
she tells him you were a bully then and
you are a bully now simon makes an
excuse for not apologizing he says that
he doesn't know where the guy is robin
throws the file with all the information
simon had collected on gordon and leaves
when simon's anger wears off he comes to
robin and apologizes he tells her that
he wanted to protect her so he collected
all the information on gordon to get a
restraining order he confesses having no
idea about gordon's situation robin
tells him that he should not be
apologizing to her but to guard him
simon tracks down gordon in a bar when
gordon is leaving he follows him and
asks for an apology simon tells him that
he wanted to apologize because robin
wanted him to gordon says it's too late
for an apology now you are done with the
past but the past is not done with you
simon asks him what he means by that but
gordon doesn't answer simon beats him up
and says who you are now has nothing to
do with me and leaves when he goes back
home he lies to robin that gordon
accepted his apology he says i am sorry
and hugs robin
simon hosts a party at his house to
celebrate his promotion everyone praises
him for his hard work and kevin
congratulates him for becoming the
national division sales representative
they are talking and celebrating when
they hear a noise outside someone hit
the glass window with a rock no one is
hurt the men go out to check they search
the place when they find danny mcdonald
there he yells at simon for fabricating
the evidence against him due to which he
lost his job ron is going to hand danny
over to the police but simon asks him to
let danny go robin's water breaks and
they take her to the hospital she gives
birth to a beautiful baby boy and
everyone is happy while simon is still
in the hospital he receives a call from
kevin who informs him of being kicked
out of office by the end of the week
simon tries to negotiate but kevin tells
him that the decision is final and they
can do nothing about it simon comes to
see robin and is excited to take her and
the baby home robin says i don't want to
go home i don't want to go home with you
simon tries to look normal and tells her
to talk later he leaves for his house
when he reaches home he finds a giant
gift box at the door he goes inside and
opens it along with a baby cot he finds
three more gifts wrapped in paper he
opens the first one and finds the keys
to his home the second gift has a cd
that says play me he plays the cd and
finds out that it was the audio from the
dinner night when he made fun of gordon
in his house he then opens the third one
which again has a cd that says watch me
he plays the video and sees gordon
coming into his house capturing his wife
gordon is wearing a monkey mask the
screen goes blue for a moment and then
the footage from the dare robin fainted
appears gordon is seen trying to touch
robin and make sexual contact with her
the tape ends without him stating
whether he raped robin or not gordon
goes to the hospital and says
congratulations to robin he leaves her
flowers and tells her about the bruises
he got from simon he leaves when simon
comes rushing to the hospital he tries
to catch gordon but he couldn't get to
him gordon calls him and says are you
going to tell her or should i simon begs
him to stop when gordon repeats his
words he leaves simon hanging with the
question of whether the baby was simon's
or his simon rushes to the nursery and
sees robin holding the baby the story
ends with simon sitting on the floor
with his career and family ended at the
same time gordon moves out after
removing the arm sling
[Music]
you